A DIVORCE

What was the follow up to "I'm leaving you?" He could have said any number of things--and maybe he wanted to any one of them--but didn't. But she didn't want him to say anything. For both of them, the words and the finality they conveyed were a relief. And why not? Martha had lived with his disbelief for so many years now that it felt good to have a message sent from sender to receiver and just be...received.

But about that disbelief? What happened to it when she spoke those words and conveyed that message. Where did those years of disbelief and the repetoire of gestures, looks, and sounds that he had crafted go? She wasn't sure for several minutes as he stood by the kitchen counter chopping celery on the counter. He kept cutting through the succulent network of tubes a few more times, wiped his hands and turned to look at her. She didn't repeat herself; he merely nodded.

The celery, for what it's worth, went into a bowl of boiled eggs that he made into egg salad for a quick dinner. They were always eating quick dinners--Martha and Greg. Martha had aura cleaning to attend to that night. The sessions were held just down the alley and around the corner. Greg dutifully made egg salad since dinners had become his domain after losing his job over 18 months ago.

Martha, however, held her job at the university, but rushed off most evenings to workshops, clinics, or doctors appointments. One thing or another. Greg kept making grilled cheese or egg salad and trying not to think too much about it.

Maybe his disbelief--what from her perspective was his stubborn refusal--over her mysterious symptoms and illnesses was just channeled back into the egg salad. But she watched him once he turned back. He didn't seem tense. He didn't "accidentally" chop his finger off--which would have led to what exactly? Reconciliation? No, she could no longer face his blunt, cold stare day after day. She was dying inside and needed relief. Greg could not give her this relief.

No person could. This was a realization that she had finally come to some months back. She couldn't remember when exactly. Maybe it was after the third failed cleansing, or after a particularly long weekend retreat that invovled a particuarly grueling session in sweat lodge. None of the teas and compounds she had ingested made her feel better. None of the meditation practices could quiet the restless feeling inside of her that something was moving through her, killing her, and would overtake her eventually.

Marriage, at least some version of it, is a pact in the face of the world betwen two people. Martha and Greg had married at a young age and thought they knew what the countours of that world were. That pact stands against the world in some ways, feels like an agreement to stand in defiance of this more or that custom. But over time, people like Martha and Greg come to realize that, in fact, marriage is a slow reconcialliation with the world. That you learn how to reincorporate yourself into it.

So what happens when the world itself becomes antagonistic to a participant in that pact? Or when the notion of what a world is changes beyond recognition for one person? Surely the pact must dissolve. And so it did for Martha and Greg.

***

That night, at the aura cleaning, Martha sat silently in a beige garden level room looking out on a stub of street--occaisonaly cars passed by but the atmosphere in the room, for those inside, was one of serentiy and removal. Martha sat through the aura cleansing even as her raged with pain. That pain seemed to somehow invade her stomach, making her feel sick inside.

Afterwards, the only person that she really knew who attended these sessions, came up to her and asked her about "her plan."

"I'm leaving in two weeks," Martha replied.

"So soon?" said the person.

"Does it seem soon? Funny I feel like I've prepared for it for a while."

"How is your husband taking it?"

"He seems fine with it."

"I heard a story about Ruston a few days ago, incidentally. They talked about all of the refugees moving there."

"Refugees?"

"Yeah, that was the word they used..."

Martha took the word inside and didn't really make much of it. Was she a refugee? She hadn't thought of it that way before. Beacuse of that, the idea fell away from the central force of the idea, the "plan" as it had been called. In two weeks, she would move to a small town called Ruston, West Virginia, to the radio quiet zone.

***

When she gave her notice at work, Martha didn't go into details. Rather she went into details but none of the pertinent ones. No, in fact, she gave completley fabricated details, convincing details, but details with no substance to them. Had Martha been a different person and in a different state of mind, the "details" she gave might have been called a delusion. She told her boss that her husband accepted a job in West Virginia--it was a good opportunity--it couldn't be passed up--she felt compelled to move--and so on. Meanwhile Greg was probably at home peeling potatos for dinner or simply sitting.

But the details made a compelling case for the urgency behind her request to resign. Really her boss was relieved, Martha had only been an adequate worker anyone--rarely showing much ambibition or drive. She had not advanced beyond being an advanced administrative assistant in the engineering college's offices. She always seemed to be ducking out for doctor's appointments, and recently seemed very antagonitistic towards the young graduate students and researchers--particualry anyone who dealt with anything involving waves or radiation.

Martha's mother had been a hippy, but now was a dead hippy, which was more or less fine for Martha. The stories her mother told about living day to day and not caring about the material world while they scrambled to get rent payments together had not conveyed the intended message to her daughter. But now, Martha found herself trying to recount and reimagine some of those stories. She marvelled, in fact, that she was quitting her job, leaving her husband and moving somewhere with no job, no steady place to live, and no real sense of the path.

The path outlined by the plan only led as far as the loding house in Ruston. Beyond that there simply was no plan. Martha's sense of wonder about this reminded her of her mother, but almost as a visitation or haunting does, only Martha felt the hautning on the inside. A part of her mother had surfaced inside her when she had least expected it.

Had she asked, Greg probably could have outlined other similarities between Martha and the woman he had known briefly as his mother-in-law. But he never bothered to do so; and she had never bothered to ask.


WAKING UP IN METAL

The echo of her own snores still startled her in the morning sometimes. The cot she slept on creaked, and sometimes, in throws of a nightmare, she would lash out and begin banging of the metal lined walls of the chamber were she was forced to sleep now. But when the banging stopped and she became lucid again Deana could only the hear muffled and still quiet around her. Then a dog would bark--maybe from next door or maybe a few block away. She might hear the faint sounds of a car passing by. The quiet came back and she would fall asleep again.

Sleeping in the chamber took getting used to. She couldn't afford to have anything large or elaborate built. A neighbor came over in the evenings for a few weeks and framed the 8 x 9 structure and covered it with layers of metal and chicken wire. The whole thing was built around a simple subfloor covered with multicolored scraps of carpet that the found from an abandoned housing development on the other side of town.

Once she moved her bed into the chamber and made the bed up with sheet edged in plaid and worn down comforter, the muffled and metallic space felt a little more inviting. She added a few more comforts--a picture, a small side table with a lamp. Soon she had to abandon the lamp as the buzz of current--and the long extenstion cord running from the house--began to bother her too. She purchased a head lamp from the army surplus store and read before bed with a beam of light extending from her forehead.

The chamber also reminded Deana of her father. He had spent several years attempting to build an elaborate bomb shelter when she was a little girl. He would sometimes come home from work and scarely could be dragged away from his digging or sawing to help with homework or read a bed time shelter. Then the obsession just dissapated, leaving a ricketly staircase to a soggy half-finished bomb shelter in the back of their yard. Years later when her father died, her older brother, Teddy, paid some day laborers $100 to strip the thing for scrap and fill the rest in with dirt. 

She remembered watching from the kitchen as the men--two Mexican migrant workers--greeted a friend who arrived that morning in a deformed pickup with tall wooden planks affixed to each side of the bed, nod grimly to one another then get to work. Within an hour, the man in the salvage truck was bouncing back through the yard to the alley and the two other men began shoveling dirt into the hole.

Whenever she thought of the shelter, she resented her brother and his aggressive handling of their father's legacy. He had dispatched, through his envoys, that part of their father's legacy, his personality, with a cold, bureacratic logic--"It's a hazard and will make the place impossible to sell." Of course, the house never did sell and only in the last few years did Teddy reluctantly agree to deed the house to her.

Was the chamber built on the exact spot of the bomb shelter? She couldn't remember its exact location. The distance between the entrace and the back stairs of the porch had warped with time. It was both closer and farther away depending on the moment when she tried to recover that piece of information. Instead, she opted to have it built near the garage, under a tree, hoping to avoid needing to pull a permit for what, as her helpful neighbor explained was "little more than a shieled TuffShed."

***

Deana generally couldn't hold down jobs. She was cranky, irrascible, unpersonable. Inclined to airing opinions about matters that had not, and probably would not, surface in any normal flow of conversation. She was unpleasant to be around and no one liked her much. The neighbor that helped her was probably just as odd, though Deana barely noticed the eccentricities of others. There was almost ethical quality to the way in which she accepted and dealt with the quirks of others.

Maybe her acceptance of the churlish behavior that so many people exhibit on a regular basis--their propensity to talk too much, be self-absorbed, and bound by fleeting notions of acceptable behavior--made her better in some way. Her tolerance was the very model of tolerance because the notion of tolerance hardly factored into it at all. The only flaw in this nearly flawless ethical system was that she expected the same suspension of reaction in other people as well. Unfortunately for, few people could restrain or not even experience a flutter of irritation in the face of someone endless stream of pronouncements and judgements.

So, Deana kept her expenses to a minimum. She didn't have to pay for housing now that she owned her parent's house (or what she always called her father's house, keeping the image of the bombshelter squarly in focus as she did so). She worked odd jobs; she volunteering at what ever organizations could tolerate her; and she flirted with varying types of government help.

For several months, the chamber strained her resources and Deana felt that she was going to have to find some steady work. Fortunately for her, she found a few house cleaning jobs that went at least a little way towards covering the costs. And for a while, it was good. The chamber's layers of metal and mesh seemed to keep the waves out, to dampen the impact of the radiation that was all around her. All of the disadvantages of sleeping, basically living, in a tiny shed gave way to her renwed sense of good health. 

But a few months after that, the headaches and rashes returned. Her level of irritability became even too much for her neighbor to tolerate. He had come over to check on the chamber only to find her insulting the quality of the work he had done. She complained for 15 or 20 minutes about how drafty it was, how inadequate and poorly thought out the design was. Her neighbor turned around and walked off without saying a word, leaving Deana to shrug and get back to thinking over the chamber's inadequacies.

***

She knew that the pamphlet was somewhere in the house; she just couldn't remeber where. After several months of merely passing through the house, she felt a bit disoriented to be inside of it again. The complexity of the floor, the strong angles of the doorways, the pourousness of the windows all overwhelmed her. After a few minutes of hyperventiallating in the living room, she remembered that she had stowed away the pamphlet in a dresser drawer in the guest bedroom--formerly for the guest that was her brother.

In the top drawer of that dresser, she found a gold and blue glossy pamphplet that read across the find "Wireless sickness is real...And I have the cure!" Deana had no quibble with the firs assertion of that statement; she felt more skeptical about the second. Dr. Nick Conroy's picture on the back flap did little to reassure him--a slighly crosseyed and unsmiling man stared out at her wearing a plain shirt and tie. 

Inside, though, the pamphlet advertised a refugee from the epidemic known as "wirelss sickness." The zig-zagging bulleted list of symptoms matched her own. And the photographs of the refuge being advertised seemed perfect to her. As much as she loved her father's home and the land and the memories of the bomb shelter. Deana knew that the promise held out by this pamphlet, the promise of a place called Ruston and community called "Salubrious", would sustain her in the present and future.


SALUBRIOUS

The problem never was having an idea, a vision, and momentum. Dr. Conroy could beam from one inspiration to the next with little hesitation. But he rarely followed thourhg and never completed anything. Really, there wasn't a thing in his life that he had completed. Of course, this didn't keep him from printing "Dr." or "MD" by his name. And he could have card and signs and posters and brochures printed by the hundreds and thousands. He was, in fact, very task oriented and often ruthlessly efficient at the small things. The boxes and piles of literature in his living room spoke eloquently to this point.

Dr. Conroy was a "doer" trapped in the wildly spun visions of a dreamer and thinker. The "do" parts of his personality didn't really merge until he his upon the idea of Salubrious. As with any account of truly inspired creation, though, that exact moment on inception was hard to pin down for him. But he did remember the time a year and a half ago when a defeated and worn out man came to his back-of-the-building office complaining about the waves.

The small city and the boxy office rooms in an old 1920s building with hollow sounding hallways were no where near an ocean, even a Great Lake. The place was soundly Midwestern and had the hulks of old mills and factories to prove it. Dr. Conroy poised his fingertips under his chin for a few moments before responding, "Of course, from the cell phone towers." The man's response demonstrated revealed immediately to Dr. Conroy his genius as a diagnostician.

They spent an hour or so talking over the etilogy of these symptoms. Both the man and Dr. Conroy were convinced that they were witnesses the emergence of a new disease. Had Dr. Conroy referted to the Biblical language of former years, he migth have said of a new plague or a scurge, or even a visitation, why not? It was clear to him though that this man was being assualted by the modern world. In such a world as this one, full of screens and people looking deeply into those screens, mindless of the cell degrading nature of the wave energy passing through them daily, who would step forth to protect a man like this.

After that man left, Dr. Conroy considerd him for several minutes. The man, whose name was recorded in tidy chart, was not remarkable in any particular way. Did not exhibit the accute nervous senstivities that he had read about in the classic cases of neurotics in Dr. Freud's time. No, this man might very well have been a plain American factory worker, a blue collar hero of sorts. Dr. Conroy quickly rewrote that last part--an earnest working man--who suffered from a mysterious illness.

It hardly bears stating that Dr. Conroy's regarded his professional staus very highly. He regarded himself as a fine, if misunderstood, medical mind. Of course, that midn had bent its inborn powers to religion (as mentioned), to feats of invention and engineering, to marketing and sales, and to a host of other occupations. Yet it was precisely to not be occupied that seemed to motivate many of these feats of genius. Maybe it was more correct to say that people like you or I would be likely to not appreciate the channels into which the doctor's exertions ran.

There was, in fact, a kidn of metaphysical genius to his labor and his effort. But from nothing sprang something and the doctor was able to rent an office and afford regular trips to the regional casinos. He was well dressed--not ostentatious or absurd--but he realized the value of presenting himself professionally. Attending to details often earned him the implicit trust of patients who watched for signals like freshly pressed clothes, polished shoes, and yet were hardly aware of doing so.

***

A few weeks after the man visited his office, Dr. Conroy stumbled into a series of facts that set his idea for Salubrious in motion. It started with a conversation he overheard in the coffee shop near his office. Two men were talking about aliens. The conversation verged into tin foil conspiracies--which even the doctor had'nt peddle at any point his career..yet. They referred several times to the Quiet Zone and the radio telescope housed there. One of the men wearing an orange trucker hat was point across the street trying to indicate how large the telescope was. Whether it was the notion of a quiet zone or the image of a enormous dish pointed at outspace, the doctor was preoccupied by an image of the telescope for much of the day. 

The doctor often scanned real estate listings on the internet. He felt that it was a good idea to always have a back up plan and exit strategy, just in case some one came looking for him. He had never been east for an extended period of time, and found himself looking at places in West Virginia and reading about the area. Then he circled back to a reference to the telescope and the Radio Quiet zone. Then on the screen was a listing for an old farm house just outside a place called Ruston. It seemed perfect for somethign, even though he didn't know what yet.

The man who visted his office, a listing for a farm, two men talking space and telescopes in a coffee shop--these were the ingredients that combined together in his mind and set off a series of images, little fragments of narratives--almost small movies playing out then fading out in his mind, and phrases, slogans, whole speeches that came to him. Suddenly the word "salubriuos" came to mind. He walked over to a book shelf in his office where, next to a DSM, he had an old red dictionary. He looked the word up: favorable to or promoting health or well-being.


FINDING SALUBRIOUS

A phone call in the middle of the night woke Dr. Conroy up. He answered and learned that he was being evicted from the building that housed his office, which housed him as well most of the time. His landlord was really more of a sub-contractor, if such a thing exists, of some owner who had long since moved to Palm Beach and may have been dead. But the building was being "condemned" and torn down for construction. For most of us, this kind of news would likely rattle us out of our plans. Days might go fueled by anxiety and despair. Dr. Conroy accepted these kinds of "adjustments" as a matter of course. 

Given his current proximity to the office, he got up from the couch, brushed his teeth, drank from a half-finished cup of coffee sitting near by and proceeded to erase himself from the place. Within an hour or so, he had everything important packed up. The sun has barely risen befor Dr. Conroy had left town, never to return.

He had no obvious destination in mind, no plan to mention. He knew that forces would lead him to West Virginia, eventually. Strangely, he didn't feel compelled to rush there. The farm that he had seen would clearly still be around. The name "Salubrious" still occupied his mind and set off the little vingettes that he had imagined the night before. He saw himself leaning on a porch railing before a field of folk. He  had imagined a procession in the street--at time a body was being escorted in a hearse, as if West Virginia had been transformed in to the tenements of 19th century New York. Most of all, he saw himself looking up as a tableful of people bent their heads to pray, muttering the words that he spoke, the very words that he mouthed he saw them mouthing too.

These kinds of scenes, of visions, were what kept Dr. Conroy moving and searching. He did not believe that these fragments of stories were already planted out there in the world for him to find. Despite his strong leaning in the direction of esoteric thought and mysticism, he leaning even more strongly on the notion that he could will these scenes into existence. Only on a few occastions had be felt to moment when his conscious mind became aware that it was acting out one of these stories, as if put on call that the script was being played out. Rather than dimish his sense of power, however, these rare moments thrilled him and kept him going.

***

Immediately, though, he decided to pay his recent patient a visit. The man was laid up at home on a workman's comp claim. Somehow the man had been able to connect his disease to workplace conditions. As a result, he was able to sit in silence in his house trying to ward off the waves as best as he could. Dr. Conroy figured that he would call on the man before leaving town and plant seeds to sow at some future point in time.

The man had been remarkably receptive to the idea that microwaves or radiation waves (Dr. Conroy would have to sort out the details later) were causing his feelings of nausea, headaches, and general fatigue. Wehther or not the man had come in with this conclusion already formed or was highly suggestive remained to be seen. Dr. Conroy, of course, intended to see right now.

The door opened to a sliver of a dark, gloomy room in a boarding house. The house wasn't very large and contained an even smaller room for the man. The room was more like a room and a half with a small sink and a toilet in what might have been a closet at some point. The man currently had his clothes hanging from a heavy metal pipe that cut the room diagnoally into two triangles. As the doctor entered, he wasn't really surprised by what he saw. The room was spare and tidy. There were five or six wine bottles in the window sills--that was the only real evidence of clutter. Some people may have been shocked or disturbed by teh room's general state of disrepair, but the doctor had lived among enough creaking floors, broken tiles, and peeling paint to hardly notice that.

Instead, the doctor did feel somewhat put off by the complete lack of personality in the room--no pictures, no art, no clippings pinned to the wall. While didn't think of things in these exact terms, the doctor's feeling might have been summed up as follows: People with no interests and personalites make terrible marks. With no foothold and ntohign to bargain with (speaking emotionally, or at least mentally), how could you negotiate with a person like this?

At first it seemed that the man would let the doctor in, but after cracking the door, he waved the doctor in and shut it quickly, saying, "I feel better with it closed." It took the doctor a few beats to realize that the man meant "better" in the physical and not emntional sense. The man set in the chair in front of the simply wooden desk and pointed the doctor to the bed. The doctor sat down on the bed, letting the man know through his body langauge that he was studying the room. There was nothign wrong in letter people like this see or understand something of the process. Sometimes trying to hide your curiosity caused more problems than not.

The man had tin foil pressed into the corner of the room. Scrapps of metal seemed to by glued into this spot and that. The man rubbed at his left arm. It was then that the doctor noticed the missing tip from the man's index finger. The digits terminated in a rounded, bony knob instead of the graceful arc of a finger tip. Dirty, overly long finger nails capped the other fingers.

"I used to be a computer programmer," the main said suddenly, bending slighly to catch the doctor's eyes. "Now I feel that they are programming me!" He turned back to the desk reaching for a half smoked cigarette. "I'm going to smoke this." The doctor nodded.

"In California, I had a wife and a kid and wrote code--assembly language for farm equipment and factory equipment. Real machines--machines that did things. Not beaming things back and forth, telling people where you are at all times. I mean, do you know where you are at all times?"

The doctor was a flexibile man--some might say flexible to a fault, flexing himself out of existence from time to time. But he was a man who was used to having a presence in a room. As this man who say across from him writhed in his chair and took long drags from the cigarette perched at the bony ends of his finger, the doctor felt his presence somewhat diminished. Rather, it might be more appropriate to say that that presence, that thing that could almost exist independently of himself had not decided how to manifest itself in the room, like a uncertain spirit being channeled by a mumbling medium.

After a pause, "I almost killed my wife...you're not a cop." That wasn't a question. "I almost killed her with a car in a park by our house. I almost ran her down while she was walking. I don't know why." 

"What do you do now?" the doctor asked. They hadn't covered these mundane matters before.

"Work in a computer repair store outside of town. I take the bus there." He paused again. "You know, there are powerful forces at work here, controlling people. It's a nexus poing for a lot of disturbing stuff. I can feel it all around me. I want to get out of here."

"Why don't you leave?"

He laughed, "Yeah..."

"Look," the doctor said, leaning in from the sagging bed where he sat. "I've got this farm in West Virginia...been there?" The man shook his head--it was always a good idea to check. "I've got this farm and I'm looking for people to join me. People that have your condition."

"You think there are others?"

"I do..." The doctor tried to assess how far to go with this one. He was tattered and shattered and very rough, but maybe he could be honed into something useful. The Neanderthals took days and days to forge their tools. The doctor was a patient man too.

"Give me your wallet," the man said. "I'm not going to steal it, what do I look like?" Well, that was the question, wasn't it. "Give it to me. I'll read your soul." The doctor, as a bit of a showman himself, couldn't resist a come on like that. He handed a slim grey leather wallet to the man. He rotated it over the bony stub of the finger. Then he pressed it to his cheek. "You have seen this, done things. You're ambittious, but worldly. This..." he waved his free hand over the doctor, "is vanity. You have to let go of your vanity. You've got too much of the world on you. You're afraid to really let it go and really see."

The doctor didn't react--at least not knowingly, at least. "Like you?"

"Ha, ha! Like me!? Well, I see things as they are."

"Then why did you come to me for help?" 

"Because I'm dying and a dying man needs a doctor."

The doctor took  his wallet and replaced it in his back pocket. He ended this interesting vist by telling the man about Salubrious, gave him the address, the pitch. "I'm heading out there soon." The man nodded.

As he left, the doctor felt very inspired by this meeting. An imaginative man like the doctor needed his imagination to be fired once and a while. The man with the stub for a finger certainly did that. Most people, you or I, for instance, probably would have counted the money in their wallet or checked to see that an ID or a credit card was still there. But it never occured to the doctor to check. He knew the difference between petty thiefs and inspired criminals. This man's madness probably needed poetry to express its true sound and form.


THE FIRST REFUGEE

His money had come to his second or third hand through the winding branches of the family tree. He had inherited a steady flow of dividends from savvy investments in oil companies and chemical companies in the early 20th century by a great uncle. He was one of several "heirs" who now benefited from the thrift and frugality of this great uncle (or so the story went). Whether it was rot in the roots or instablity in the branches, the money that flowed from their ancestor hardly bound the recipients together into something called a family. Anthony Charles, in other words, was not a family man.

He had lived with his mother in Palm Beach for many years, biding his time until her death. When she finally did pass on, he stayed in the desert town golfing and gambling and passing time. This life of leisure did not protect him from an overwhelming feeling that somethign was wrong with his health. He had consulted with doctors in several states. He had even visited specialists who helped with poeple with exotic ailments when they travelled to even more exotic destinations. He had been in and out of hospitals in Thailand, in the Phillipines, in South America.

There was something in the air, he felt, the same air that he sliced and wedged his golf balls through that he responded to poorly. There was something strange, though, that took place in the bars of country clubs like the ones he visted. There was a kind of threshold for paranoid talking. Anthony was very aware of this threshold and never really voiced his opinion loudly. His acquiatances often remarked though that he didn't carry a cell phone--he was always looking for pay phones. The waitresses at the Palm House--his base of operations, so to speak--often let him use the office phone or even their own calls to call his mother (when that was still an issue) or to place bets.

People noticed that he didn't carry a cell phone, rarely was seen around computers, and even seemed a bit uneasy around televisions. "I'm not a technophobe," he would argue. Maybe he wasn't. But he didn't invite the stuff in either.

Over the last few years, the uneasiness turned to physical symptoms--redness, headaches, occasionaly vomiting. Once he came to his knees in the middle of a gold tournament and lost $5000 dollars because of it. He started to avoid flying and traveling. His social impulses, of course, kept him from becoming an utter recluse, but he was on the verge by most standards.

It was around this time that he started to hear about people buying up land in Colorado and then in Montana. He read a profile of a well-to-do banker from the Midwest relocating much of his operations to a rance outside of an old farming community in the West. This seemed appealing to Anthony. Maybe he could buy up some land somewhere, put an embargo on wires and waves and signals zipping around all over the place. It didn't take long to imagine these places becoming much like the place where he was now--an oasis suddenly overrun by oasis seekers.

While his sense of what the rich and priviledged were did not amount to class consciousness, he knew what people with money were capable of, what they would do to a place. Already Palm Springs was overrun by coffee shops and restaurants set up to look like laboratories. You could hardly get a decent meal anymore, he might have complained, had he been a crank and social outcast.

***

It was during this time, during a golf trip to Arizona (he drove there, of course), that he struck up a conversation with an astronomer who worked at Arizona State. They talked college sports in an uneven way, Anthony hardly invested in any particular team or even in the concept of college sports; the astronomer appraoched the subject with academic aloofness mixed with a defensiveness about his institution compared to other ones. In any event, they began discussing the Radio Quiet zone in West Virginia and the space telescope there.

"They just said, 'No transmissions here.' I don't know if they could do it again," the astronomer said. "I mean, can you imagine some of these guys in Washington saying to the telecom lobbiests at their daughter's engagement party, 'Hey, you can't broadcast in an area with size of two eastern states. Nothing, to any one, no questions asked.?' It wouldn't happen."

"But they did do it."

"Sure, in the 1950s. The government could do anythign then. and they did."

"So, what does the quiet zone mean?"

"No interference from telecommunications, from broadcast signals. The mountains do most of the work; the law does the rest."

Anthony decided after this conversation that he would buy a nice piece of property in this quiet zone and retire there. Not only could he probably get a very nice deal on land, but maybe this strange condition that he had been feeling would disappear.

***

His business in Palm Springs wrapped up with little ado. There weren't people to discard as he left town. Had Anthony been a different person, and lived his live differently up until now, the lack of pull that Palm Springs exerted over him might have bother him. But, he left town in his packed car, packet only with a few suit cases, his golf clubs, and an antique rifle that he owned (and why he owned it would take some time to explain), and proceeded to drive across the county to the Quiet Zone.

He didn't realize at the time that he was the first refugee. He didn't know that he would be on of many who would relocate to this square swath of land where waves and transmissions of all kinds had been exempted. At first, he wasn't even sure if his idea was sound. He spent several night sitting on the front porch of the farm house he bought, looking up at the pin pricks of starts in the sky. He didn't feel any different, the quiet here didn't have a tangibly different quality. Anthony felt cheated and slighly disappointed.

Perhaps he didn't realize or wasn't aware that he was looking for an experience, that what he had really craved was the feeling of something tangibly different. But what could this difference be? He was relocated to a spot of the earth that was regulated to keep things out and away, to push back at all of the tangible intangible signals of the modern world. It would be unfair at this point to lay the charge at Anthony's feet that he lacked introspection and self-awareness to realize this. He was, after all, trying to replace one set of sensations with what he perceived to be a different set of sensations and a feeling of peace.

The people in the nearby town also didn't respond as he had expected. His presence in town hardly was noticed. The old farmers and miners that passed through merely nodded at him. Maybe a child would point to his now outlandishly nice car, but even that didn't seem to merit any comment from anyone. Even when his newness was a topic of conversation, such a conversation would generally go something like this:

"You aren't Martha's son are you?" the woman checking him out at the grocery asked. She was an older, heavy set woman with tinted glasses on. She seemed to ask the question in a friendly, good natured way.

"No mam, I'm not." For some reason a Southern politeness was already creeping into his speech; he wasn't sure why. 

The woman passed a few more cans across the scanner. "Well, then, who are you?"

The question took him aback. She wasn't staring at him, or even giving him much notice now. "I'm new in town. I live in the old Palmer house."

"Oh, that's right, P.J. mentioned that he was sold that house...under unusual circumstances. I bet you're a scientest or someone working on that telescope." he didn't respond immediately, leaving an opening for her to say, "Well, that's okay. I know you folks can't say much about your work, listening to aliens and the like. Well, we appreciate the work you do to keep the aliens away."

Over the course of several weeks, word spread that he was an alien specialist working at the lab. One day a litle boy rode up the long rutted road up to his house on a bicycle. 

Anthony had mowed down a swatch of pasture for use as a driving range green. The grass was craggy and the ground uneven, but he found himself out on the range every day. His body seemed to want to reflexively go through the motions it knew and was accustomed to. Sometimes he felt like he hardly controlled it at all. When the boy walked up besides him, he was midswing. The boy started him; he turned back to the boy, who winced at the club that was raised in a striking position.

"No, no, it's okay. Who are you? Do your mom and day know that  you are here?" Anthony had seen enough serial killer and most wanted shows to know that a situation like this could end up very badly for him.

"My telescope is broke."

"I'm sorry to hear that."

"It got busted when my little brother tried to swing at a tree with it. He thought it was a bat. I need it for my science fair project. I'm tracking a star."

He handed the telescope to Anthony. The lenses were cracked, the telescope didn't retract any more. It was broken beyond repair. Even if he had been some kind of mechanical, engineering prodigy, he only had a wobbly hammer and a few mis matched screwdriver left in the garage by the previous owner.

"You want me to fix this? I don't think I can."

Strangley, the boy didn't look disappointed. "My mom said that you work with the telescope."

"Oh, no, no. I don't do that. I'm not sure why she thinks that, but I don't work with the telescopes at all. I don't know..."

"So, you're not one of the telescope guys?"

"No, I'm not."

The boy turned back to retrieve his bike and return to town. As he walked down the road, the boy seemed like an emissary to his people, an emissary to deliver the news that this man was not the telescope man. And if that was the case, whay kind of man was he?


IN THE AIRPORT

Greg had little to say the last night of his dinner duty. Martha's last day at work was two days earlier. She had been preoccupied with her preparations to leave--oil changes, grocery shopping, and trips to the Salvation Army. She was only taking a backpack of clothes with her to start her new life. Greg still didn't know exactly where she would be living, who she would be living with. In fact, he didn't ask her any question. Following along with the theme of his acceptance of her condition, he didn't comment on this uncertainty either.

With the dinner dishes clean, Greg carried her bag down the car and waited for Martha. She gathered up her purse and scooped up some change on the dresser, and a compact that she had overlooked. The house phone rang then, and rang and rang. She decided not to answer and moved to door. But the phone kept asking for her and she found herself moving towards it to answer its call.

"Martha, are you there?" It was her mother.

"Yes, Mom, it's me." She could barely hear her mother. The phone reception was poor and her mother sounded as if she was in a wind tunnel. "Mom, I said its me."

"I heard you! I'm trying to decide what to say to you right now."

"About what?"

"My god, Martha, about what? You sound crazier than I ever did." This was a whole new angle of attack from her mother. A completely new front had been opened up in their on and off again conflict. 

"Well, that's something, I guess, mother."

"When are you leaving?"

"Right now, mom. Greg is in the car waiting for me."

"He's doing what!?"

"Waiting for me..."

"I heard you! I heard you. I can hear you just fine. Why are you doing this?"

"Mom, I don't want to get into it right now."

"Well, where it sounds like you're going, now might be the only time. There's no phones, there? No radio? No television?"

"Well, there's some of that stuff. Why do you care? I thought you threw your hands up at that stuff."

"What if somethign happens to you?"

"I'll go to the doctor."

"Where are you living?"

"I don't know yet. Somewhere. I've heard that there is a place there, a refuge."

"A compound. Jim Jones, honey. That's all I have to say."

"Mom, I really have to do. Greg is waiting."

"That's the least of his worries right now."

&&

"It will be fine mom. I just...I just need to do this."

"Okay, okay. I'm not going to step on this. Just stop and think ever now and again. I wish someone had told me that from time to time."

Downstairs, Greg was indeed waiting. He wasn't riled up or angry or seething. He seemed to just...exist in that car, hands on the wheel, listening to NPR. He automatically turned off the radio when she got near the car. It had always agitated her, and now would send her over the edge if he tried to leave it on.  They would be togther in the car for over 30 minutes together. The time didn't bother Martha. She had cultivated remarkeable skills of endurance. In fact they both were practically athetlic in their capacity to endure one another.

As they crossed out of their town and into the town neighboring theirs, Greg suddenly said, "I'm going to be fine."

Martha wasn't sure what kind of response he wanted. Her confrontations with him often centered around his his riddle like requests for engagement from her. Was she suppsoed to affirm this? Deny it? What did he want? Martha did not know. We can at least take some comfort in the fact that she stopped to process her his comment and her response. Things weren't as bad as that.

"I'm  going to be fine. I'm not sure about you."

"I don't know what you're talking about." 

"I'm worried about you, Martha. I wish you weren't going, but I'm not going to stop you."

"Well, it's too late now." Those few words struck the chords of panic inside her. She felt confined in the car, suddently aware of how heavy and impenetrable the dark outside the car window was. She went quiet and was buoyed up by car going up the on ramp and being flooded with light. This helped her somewhat, but she was aware of how radical and absolute this change was. And what about Greg? Would he be fine? She was just leaving him behind. What would he do? Would he start calling that woman Brenda? Or talking more to their neighbor Janelle? Maybe Holly would start calling again. 

Had there ever been a Brenda, a Janelle, or a Holly can't be confirmed, but these fear took over Martha for a moment. And for her, who would replace Greg? She had not posed this question to herself before now. Who would be in her life? What would her life be without another person? Another voice, a different perspective, intruded in the conversation at this point. This voice was the one compelling her on, making forceful arguments about the life and death situation that she was in. Somethings we do for reasons beyond things like love for other people. She had to survive because the world was killing her. Who has time to worry about boyfrieds and partners when they are trying to survive an apocalypse.

***

As cars are wont to do, it arrived at the airport. Martha left Greg behind to take the car back. He had been instructed to sell it as soon as he could. Maybe he would, maybe he wouldn't. Martha consoled herself by thinking that maybe this was a parting gift--an old yellow hatchback. Yes, that would sustain him as he crawled out of the ruins of their relationship.

In the mood to dwell on last things, Martha also realized that this might be the last time she ever flew on a plane. She knew that the epxerience would be exhausting and probably prfoundly traumatic. The last time she flew had been to a professional development conference in Atalanta. RAther than attend the conference, she had sat in her hotel room, in the bathtub half full of tepid water, which she repeateadly drained and warmed up, trying to keep herself from throwing up. Her boss had not been happy to learn later that no one saw her at the conference. Her alibi, such as he was, was a an older coworker who flirted with her from time to time, but he finally let it slip--it's hard to propel silly lies when the emotional force to fuel them is absent.

That had been her most recent trip on an airplane, and surely she could expect the same. As she imagined how sickened she would become, she sat down with her back at her feet on a long vinyl bench opposite the ticket counter. She lay down on the bench, only to find herself being awoken by a woman in a subtly striped blue shirt and a swagged blue and red checked neck scarf. As Martha sat up, she say a police office standing firmly in the backgroun, passively alert to her movements.

"Mam, are you okay? You fainted. Is this your bag?"

"Oh, yeah, it is."

"Okay, someone found this bag in the men's restroom."

"Really?" For some reason, she was feeling really groggy and found it hard to concentrate on the woman standing over her. She traced the lines of bleached hair to dark and gray roots peering out along the part of her hair, then was distracted again by the police officer. She started watching an Indian family waiting in line with an abundance of bags to check, all of them strapped and taped shut.

"Mam, are you travelling with someone?"

"No, I'm alone."

"Okay, I have a police officer here, he can help you if you need to file a report."

"Was anything stolen?" Now the panic was setting in.

"I don't think so. Why don't you check." Martha didn't notice the woman wave away the police officer, who was hanging back even further now. The officer began chatting with another police officer who was zipping by on a Segue. They both looked over at Martha, again without her noticing, but turned away, probably discussing a television show, a football game, or their kids.

With the woman's help, Martha confirmed that nothing was taken. They also checked for anything suspicious, but nothign seemd problematic or dangerous.

"I'm really sorry, I just started to not feel well and had to lie down."

The woman's empty, friendly look did not flinch in the face of this commment. She remained strictly professional. "Well, I'm just glad you're okay. Why don't you come with me, we'll get you checked in and to your gate. I can call a car."

"I won't need that. That's okay. Just help me get checked in."

"Okay, come with me."

Martha finally arrived at her gate, a little wobbly, but more coherent than before. She sipped on a bottle of water and ate bites of an overpriced bagel. The agents at the gate began annoucing groups to board. Martha hung back from the massed crowd of aggressive traveler, all kicking their bags in front of them, inching closer and closer to the gates. As she boarded, people were already covering their eyes with sleepign masks, preparing their movies to watch, or just crumpled up with whatever paperback or magazine they brought to pass the time away.

She finally found her seat and got her carryon bag stowed away. The plan pushed back from the gate and lumbered to the runway. When the jet engines finally roared to life and propelled the plane in the sky, she fell asleep for the duration of the flight.


ON THE ROAD

This wasn't the first time that Dr. Conroy had slept in his car. It was, however, that persistent tapping at the window woke him up. The temperatures must have dropped over night and left his windows foggy and beaded with dew. As he became more conscious of his surroundings and the situation, he sat for a moment to seriously consider whether or not to roll down the window. He was tucked into the back seat of the car with a pile of blankets on top of him--not exactly mobile. Would he be able to dart into the front seat and get away?

He always left his keys in his pocket for his express purpose, only now, he couldn't find him. He felt around him quickly and had no luck.  His hand passed along the floor board beneath him and still no luck. The knocking on the glass became more persistant as he looked for his keys. Maybe he wouldn't be getting away so easily.

"Doctor? Doctor?" The knock spoke.

He recognized the voice immediately. It was the man, his patient, this patient named Henry, whom Dr. Conroy wanted to call "Patient X," but even he wasn't that grandiose, yet. Tossing the blankets back, the doctor sat up and rolled down the window. 

"I thought you might have already left. But I saw your car as I was on the bus."

"What are you doing here Henry?"

"I'm coming with you to Salubrious. I've decided. I'm sick of feeling this way. You're the only doctor that is going to heal me."

The doctor, Henry's doctor--as he was just called--had not planned to take any followers along with him. He wasn't performing some kind of Mormon flight with a band of outsiders and visionaries. The doctor had wanted to assess the places the in queit zone first, get a feel for the people, then begin making his move. Bringing Henry along would complicate things. He rubbed his eyes a few more times and opened the door to stretch.

"You didn't make it far," Henry said. He was lighting a cigarette now and bouncing at the knees.

"No, I wasn't in a rush."

"Where are you going exactly?'

"Well, let's just say I have a spot in mind."

"The spot must not be going anywhere then."

"No, I guess it's not."

"The store's opening."

"Huh?"

Henry pointed across the parking lot of the Walmart. "The store is opening." The doctor noticed an old man spraying down the exapnse of glass doors at the entrance of the store. A truck was pulling away from the loading docks at bag and squealed loudly as the air brakes released their pressure. Nearby a man in a flannel shirt emerged from a small popup RV trailer and began crossing the parkign lot to the store.

"Come on," Henry said. "Let's get some coffee."

"Oh, okay." The doctor still wasn't entirely used to the relative feeling of helplessness that he felt around Henry. Perhaps helplessness isn't the right word, he felt a kind of distance or remove, and was willing to be swept along as an impartial observer of event does. This man, Henry, seemed to have his own unique ebb that pulled the doctor along. Perhaps it was a relief to someone like the doctor to not continually assert his will over someone. Or maybe the long view was that his passivity was exertion of will. The particulars of this fine point would remain to be seen for some time.

They entered the store just as the last clicks of the locks were sounded. Except for occassionaly taking up residence in a big box store parking lot, Dr. Conroy rarely entered these kinds of places. He was always impressed by how full they seemed, and yet impermanent at the same time. He was always surprised, for instance, to look up and see just how unfinished the massive ceiling was and how it looked like there was only a thin sheet of metal covering all of that merchandise.

An immediately flaw in their plan was apparent as soon as they realized that no coffee had been made, rather it was puffing and blowing its way into existence in the small food area tucked off to the side of the store. That meant that they would have to walk around for a while.

"I'm hungry," Henry said. "Let's go find the donuts."

Conventiently, the rows of boxed donuts were placed very close to the front of the store and offered an array of choices. The doctor picked up a package of coconut flake donuts. Henry picket up two packets of white powdered donuts. He quickly opened one and began pacing through the next few aisles and popping little snowy donuts in his mouth. An unusual feeling of panic and caution came over the doctor. Would someone notice that this strange muttering, boucning man was eating little baby donuts without paying for them?

Normally, this kind of thing would not bother him at all. He felt much more visible and exposed around this man and  didn't like that feeling at all. This feel naturally set of an ongoing, spring loaded process of intensely trying to hide his guilt and worrying about it being revealed. He worried that would draw even more attention to himself and acted all the more unnaturally too.

His concern was not completely baseless. For some reason that were numerous people milling around the Wal-Mart this early in the morning. All of them in various states of dress--a woman dressed but not made up for work, an old woman whose house dress was passable as everday wear. There was a family all wearning denim vests with eagles emblazoned on them. These people, and the workers populating the store at that time, were hardly aware or concerned about this doctor and his strange companion.

That was until Henry alighted on Tammy, or so he called her. She was standing in a aisle of hairspray and makeups whose luminosity at that hour of the mornign made them seem positively neon. The doctor was a few feet behind him, a few consciously and cautiously planned paces, when he heard Henry saying, "Tammy, Tammy, you didn't call me."

As the doctor turned the corner, he saw Henry propped against the shelving talking, or trying to talk, to a girl. She couldn't have been more than 17 or 18 years old, and the doctor hoped the later. "Henry, what's going on?" he asked.

"Who's that?" this girl asked. She seemed like a nice enough girl but had the some kind of look of wildness to her that Henry did. Seomthing insie of her seemed to move too quickly, too be too full of life, as if the wrong part of her had been wound up and animated when she was set in motion. "Who is that?" she asked again.

"That's my doctor. He's looking after me." The doctor flinched when Henry said this, but thought he hid it well.

"Hey, we're going to West Virginia, leaving soon..." This was the first that the doctor had heard of it. "You should come. Come with us. I haven't forgot about our night together." The doctor realized that this situation could get bad very quickly.

"Henry," he said, "I really think we should get going. I'm sure that this girl's parents don't want her coming with us."

Then the thing inside of her went off, "I don't give a crap about them. I do what I want."

Henry was laughin, as if very pleased with the scene he was creating. He took a flask out of his coat pocket and began drinking. "Yes! Yes! You don't need them. Let's go, let's go now." They left the aisle and proceeded to the front of the store. Henry and this girl Tammy were hanging all over each other now, laughin loudly and stumbling across the waxy, bright store floors.

Just then Tammy's mother turned out of an aisle, "What the hell are you doing, Tammy? Get away from that pervert!" The doctor no longer had to worry about masking his paranoia. All eyes were on them.

Tammy's mother started yelling in the store, "This man is a god damn pervert and child molestor. He raped my daughter!"

The doctor stepped forward, "I'm sorry there must be some misunderstanding." He tried putting his hand on her arm to calm her down. She shrugging him off violently.

"What, did you watch? Are you gonna rape me now too? Someone call the police, they're trying to abduct us."

The doctor stepped towards Henry and grabbed him, "You're coming with me. We're leaving now!"

Henry started laughing violently, fell down behind he doctor. Dr. Conroy, in a surge of energy, started pulling him on his back across the slick shiny floor. "Get up, get up, damn it," he hissed at Henry. With one energetic pull, he had Henry on his feet and running after him to the car. Behind them several employees chased them, their blue vests flapping madly like wings. A golf cart with a security guard whipped around from the side of the building and started pursuing them.

The only person that worked there who wasn't 18 and wasn't 80 was herding carts on an electric scooter of his own. The long train of carts wobbled and jerked even as the security guard approached in the golf cart. The cart shepard turned back and watched Dr. Conroy and Henry race across the parking lot. He tried to stop the carts from cutting of the security guard, but it was too late. The carts broke across the security guard's cart like a metallic wave and didn't give way.

Dr. Conroy and Henry were in the car and driving away. Dr. Conroy hesitated only at the turn off of the access road onto the sliver of highway that ran back to town. He wanted desperately to be free of his passenger. Their relationship was starting to feel more like a visitation to the doctor than anythign else. Between skipping out on his office space and their recent encounter with Tammy--or Tammy's mother to be more precise--going back wasn't an option. So, he made that turn to Salubrious, to the quiet zone, though preoccupied mostly by how he could ditch this strange man named Henry.


A MAN NAMED GREG MALONEY

"You must be Greg," the rail thin store manager at the Starbucks greeted him from behind the espresso machine. "Have a seat, I'll be with you in a minute." Greg silently took a seat by the window and scanned the faces in the coffee shop. From the outside this man named Greg Maloney seemed impossibly bored. You wouldn't think that there could be anything interesting going on inside of him. He normally had a sleepy look about him. His stubble always seem to resurface within an hour or so of  shaving. His eyes had a downturned, tear drop shape to them. And recently, he  hadn't bothered to keep up his clothes very well. All of this compounded by the fact that he rarely smiled these day.

He was dressed better today. He had even smiled a little at the bus driver and said hello to her. He wasn't sure why, but a feeling of indebtedness had come over him at that moment. Had he been in a talkative mood, Greg might have told you that he really was ruled by whims--at least small whims like this one. A feel like that could overwhelm him and seem right in the moment. In between though, it was sometimes hard to say what he felt--he certainly could always tell.

Behind the sleepy, bored look that he carried about with him, Greg was always watching and observing people. He was interested just now in two women sitting across from each other, separated by laptops. They both had large binders in their laps and gestured wildly over the computer screens as  they worked out whatever pitch or idea they were trying to flesh out. He was amazed by the intensity of their focus and connection with each other. They seemed more than alive, animated by their work. 

The problem with observations like this is that they sometimes turned back on him, making him hole up inside and receede from the feeling. The two women's/ energy and passion was interesting, yet off putting. They didnt' seem aware of how articifically amped up they were, how loud their voices were and how there was an old woman circling around looking for a seat. Greg didn't get up either, law of the jungle and that sort of thing. Their lack of self-awareness disturbed him; they seemed to be drowning in themselves.

But was his unsettled feeling also because the didnt' see  him? didn't reciprocate his interest and attention? Perhaps it was unrealistic for him to expect them to do this. He hardly seemed present at all. And if he did feel this, and it isn't certain that he did, it wasn't necessarily sexual either. So, maybe the two women were completely tuning out the notice that he game them, their training having been gained in a completely different arena.

The manager sat down, not noticing the old woman either, incidentally. He had a copy of a resume and a job application with him. "So, you're Greg."

Greg shook his head, "I am. I am."

"Impressive work history. Sales, training, the works. So, I have to ask, why do you want to work here?"

Wasn't the answer obvious? Well, maybe it wasn't. "Well, to be honest with you, I've been out of work for a while..." The manager nodded his head through that part. "And I'm looking for something to engage me. I'd like to meet new people, I think."

"Umm, hmm. Very good. So, would you say that you are committed to customer service?" The manager, for what it's worth, came across as being very sincere. He was clearly following this script, but did so in a good natured way. He was very upbeat, hunched forward in his chair, nearly putting his face in Greg's. The contrast between the two was striking.

"I would say that. I think that being aware of other's people needs is very important. Maybe the most important thing."

"I completely agree. We need someone to work the early morning shifts. I had someone who flaked on me when he decided to move back to California and live with his parents. Couldn't take it, I guess."

Greg wasn't sure what the his potential predecessor couldn't take, so he tentatively added, "I'm pretty tough, I guess."

***

Greg learned the next day that he got the job, which was good news. Now that Martha had left, he only had a month left in their apartment before life would start to unravel for him. Unemployment wasn't really an option now. His time had run out. He would start next Monday. He really was desperate to get out of the apartment but something kept him there. Maybe it was the same passivity that had let Martha walk right out of his life.

He didn't feel bitter towards her for leaving. He didn't blame her or bemoan his situation. He thought she was slighly unhinged, but he always felt there was a kind of directness and honesty about her obsessions with herbs, auras, and other metaphysical forces. She never imposed these things on him per se, though she wanted his emotional particpation and involvement. He had always hoped that she could reconcile herself to his tacit acceptance, and embrace his slack claim over her as a kind of love, maybe even love itself.

There was a kind of ethical impulse to his love for her. We might think it admirable and imagine all of the ways that this worldview or that one could argue for and justify it. Greg was a man who didn't want to grasp too tightly to the things of this world. He didn't always understand how being the one dangling from the slack rope being dangled by a sleepy eyed partner was a precarious position in its own right.

With the weekend over, Greg woke up early in the morning and drove to work. The car, an old white Toyota, clanged down the street. He parked behind the Starbucks where he would be opening, standing by the propped open back door, the manager was smoking a cigarette and sipping at coffee. "Hey, man, you made it."

"Yeah, pretty early."

"My wife works early too. Good thing I manage a coffee shop. Got any kids? I don't."

"No, no kids." Greg wasn't compelled to say anything about Martha. It might be years before he did.

"Say, do you know a girl named Martha?"

"Well, I do."

"Yeah, I thought so. My wife's friend said she knew a guy named Greg Maloney. They both went to school with Martha."

"I wouldn't know much about that. I've only lived here for a few years."

"Oh, yeah, where did you move from?"

"Colorado." That was as far as he would go.

"Great, place. I've been to Aspen a few times. Okay, let's get to work."

The Greg spent most of that day sweeping and watching. He saw the store manager pull countless shots and tried to follow the frantic tapping of fingers at the point of sale system. He left work with his finger tinted brown from the coffee and smelling like roasted beans.


UNDOING THE METAL CHAMBER

As is often the case, a series of seemingly unconnected events set in motion other events that caused Deanna to leave her father's home behind. This wouldn't happen immediately, but the right set of events, fired in the order in which they did, in fact, fire caused this to happen. The first of these events was an unfortunate tagging incident. In the middle of the night, someone, most likley an angry child, Deana thought, had crept around her sleeping chamber and sprayed up one side of chamber. 

When she called the police, from inside the house of course, she verged on making it seem that either the entire chamber (which she basically called her house for the purposes of clarity) had been painted up from the foundation to the roof. She even slipped into making it sound like some clear ringing example fo hate speech and defamation has been left there. This wasn't the case, of course, and she managed to back down before things got really out of hand. Of course, they did get out of hand, just not at that moment.

The police dispatcher promised to send an office by and encouraged Deanna to file a report with the Streets and Sanitation department, "They'll remove the paint for you," the woman on the phone said, trying her best to be encouraging, but really wanting to get off of the phone as quickly as possible. 

"We'll see. I just have to deal with this right now. It's a real shame, and an insult. I can't believe it." It might have crossed the woman on the phone's mind that this line of reasoning was not completely valid, but she kept that opinion to herself, assuming she had, of course. 

Later that day, a police office did come by and looked at the chamber. He circled around with his flipped open notebook.

"This some kind of shed or greenshouse."

Deanna seemed very agitated by this question. "Sort of..."

"Which is it? I just need somethign for my report. It doesn't really matter what it is." The police office was nearing the end of his shift and wasn't inclined to ask about the weapons cache or tortute chamber or whatever other demented thing this woman might have in there. It was better for him and his family at that moment that he choose not to be too particular about words and the things behind those words. "I'll call it a shed. It's shorter."

He circled back to the graffiti. "So, that's it?"

"Yes, they must have done it in the middle of the night."

"They? It was more than one person?"

"Well, I don't know. I'm just trying not to assume who it was. You know, I'm not trying to profile anyone."

"Sure, sure thing." His voice trailed off as he studied the graffiti. "It's not very well done," he said. Deanna seemed to step back and even seem deflated by the comment, as if an appraiser had devalued a seemingly rare and valuable possession. "Yeah, look, it really just saws 'heat' in reverse...tea-uh... Not sure what that means, but I'll write it down."

Deanna spent a few more minutes with the officer. She was tryign to point out a problem in the foundation and how the two might be related. The police office figured that was unlikley, and really didn't want to get roped in to becoming this woman's subcontracter for the rest of the day. "That probably won't go in my report, you know, to keep it short. Otherwise, it's all in the report."

"What will happen now?"

"Now we wait and see if someone does somethign like this again. Fortunately for us we will have this report handy."

Deanna then leapt pass the officer and into the chamber, "Oh, and this," she said. She had [...]

It took Deanna several days before she decided to paint over the tagging. She had kept it up as some kind of reminder, but of what exactly, it's hard to say. But there were letters in sloppy dripping back paint, "teah" on the side of garage. She took a chip of paint from the chamber, literally having scrapped it off with a screwdriver, to the hardware store as a sample. The clerk behind the paint desk seemed skeptical about producing a good match. "We can try it." He was right, "we" did have to try. It took four employeess, three clerks throwing up their hands in defeat, before the fourth one produced something that satisfied her.

She brought home her shopping back of roller pads and frames and brushes. For several hours, she worked coats of primer and paint over the tagging. With each layer the letters seemed to sear through less and less, until all that was left was an off white, yellowish block of paint where the tagging had been.

***

Deanna did some very part-time bookkeeping for an elderly couple who ran a liquor store. She entered transaction into the antiquated green and black computer system that they used, ran reports on a squealing dot matrix printer. The job kept her back in a small storeroom that functioned as an office, barriacaded behind towers of wine and beer boxes. It was hard to tell who exactly was been whom out with the blockade of boxes, but the arrangement seemed to work for everyone involved.

At the end of the one of these shifts, the elderly couple usually handed her an envelope with $150 dollars and a bottle of wine, usually something that a sales rep had dropped off. Deana would usually binge on the wine that night, then not drink again until the next one. But as she was leaving that night, giving an update to the man who made up the elderly couple, she glanced out the window as saw her neighbor standing at opposite the store in the the shopping center parking lot. 

He was talking to a few kids who looked incredibly shifty and suspicious to Deanna. An idea seized her at that moment: her neighbor was responsible for the tagging. The truth of this assertion was so self-evidenct to her that learnign that these boys were his nephews (which they weren't, but just to consider the possible) woudl not have swayed her conviction. 

It was entirely within her character to rush out of the store, weilding the wine bottle that the old man was handing her now, and smash her neighbor over the head with it. She very likely could have jumping upon him and bit him and scratched him, she was that furious. She didn't do anything of these things, but she could have. 

No, she kept nodding through the old man's story, shfiting her focus from him to her neighbor. She could have sworn that she saw money passing between them. Maybe it was drug? Maybe both? She decided that she would find out.

That night, Deana bided her time until 9 pm or so. She put on a light jacket and walked a few houses down to her neighbor's house. Everything was dark, inside and outside, but she thought that she heard people moving inside. She went up to the house and knocked at the door. As she knocked, she realized that she had never been inside her neighbor's house. She really didn't know much about him. Well, that was about to change tonight.

No one answered her first knock, or the thirtieth. Perhaps whoever was inside underestimated her persistance, and perceptiveness. She saw the eyes peering out from the drawn blinds. She heard the creaks of feet creeping away from the door. Okay, the front door wouldn't work. Deana was going to go around to the back, only to realize that the fence surrouding the house didn't have a gate to the back. You might not be surprised to learn that Deana was not detered. She decided to loop around the entire block and come down the back alley. At that point, she didn't find an opening from the back either. Now, she decided to scale the fence. At least she could do so from the back and not be seen by the neighbors who, naturally, had been studying her every movement on the porch. 

Once she alighted in the back yard, she noticed that a light was on in the cellar. She could see the tops of heads through the dirty, lit up pane. Deana crept along the side of the yard then climbed up on to the back porch from the side. Her foot landed on a board that wiggled and whined as she put her weight on it. She stopped for a moment then proceeded to the back door. She quietly opened the screen door and jiggled the door handle. it was incredibly wobbly, and there was no dead bolt on the back door. 

Deana put her shoulder firmly against the door, drew back and forced all of her weight against it. The old door gave way to her shoulder with little resistance. Once inside, Deanna could hear voices coming up from the basement door that was propped open with a large rusty hand weight. She picked up a large kitchen knife on the counter and proceeded down to the basement.

The stairs opened onto a series of faded murals that had been painted on the basement walls, the plaster on which they had been painted was chipping and falling off. The basement floor was covered in a golden yellow linoleum tiles that were covered in scuff marks. She turned to the left then turned through a doorway that had been framed by dark wood paneling.

Inside this interior room, her neighbor was sitting on a brown and golden wool couch, stuffing coming out in various places, with a bong. The kids that she had seen in the parking lot were sitting in overstuffed chairs and on the bean bags. An old woman, who Deana didn't recognize was sitting next to her neighbor. Next to her was a younger woman.

When he saw Deana, her neighbor got up. "Hey, hey! what are you doing here!?" What was she doing here? What was he doing, she wondered.

"I saw you in the parking lot today. I had to find out what you were doing."

"Well, doing this. Just relaxing, is that cool?"

Deana wasn't sure whether it was cool or not.

"Hey, is this your neigbor?" one of the kids asked. He was dressed in dark jeans and sweatshirt jacket emblazoned with a bright white skull. 

"Yeah, guys, this is Deana. She's cool, or can be, I guess."

The kid's friend, who was half asleep in the chair, looked up. "Oh, yeah, you tagged her garage."

"Shit man, you weren't supposed to say that. Ha, ha, well, what the hell? Yeah, I did it."

Deana was completely disoriented. The haze of pot smoke and cigarettes was getting to her head. She hadn' eaten dinner that night, she was so angry. "Come on dear, sit down and get high," the old woman said. "Getting angry won't help." Everyone starting laughing. Suddenly everyone was sitting on the floor in a circle, even the old woman, passing the bong around.

Needless to say, everyone was completely stoned within an hour or so. Conversations that are hardly worth recounting took place. It is worth mentioning though that Deana didn't respond well to the pot. She had never smoked before, not a single cigarette. Her father had been a smoker and it was a habit she associated uniquely with him. So, in this room full of tried and true smokers, espcially the old woman who acted as some kind of convener of a convention of bad habits and vices, Deana could not keep pace.

***

No one realized at first that the only lighter in basement was gone. By that time, the two kids were asleep, the old woman was rambling on about some event or another, and Deana's neighbor and the younger woman were nodding off. The neighbor and the younger woman both came back to consciousness, though about smoking more, only to realize that the lighter was gone, and so was Deana.

"Should we look for her?" the woman asked.

"She's probably gone off to her chamber."

"Her what?"

"Chamber."

"You mean that shed."

"Yeah, she calls it a 'chamber.'"

"What does she do in there? Sew?"

They both starting laughing. "No, she sleeps. She sleeps in there. It's where she sleeps. I helped her to build it. I built it, actually."

"She sleeps there?"

"Yeah, beacuse the radio waves or whatever are killing her."

"Oh. That's weird." 

Deana's neighbor shrugged. "I'm tired. I'm going to bed. You gonna take your mom home?"

"Yeah, what about these kids?"

"They can take care of themselves. I'm going to sleep."

Upstairs, Deana's neighbor was workign his way out of his sweater and shirt, when something caught his eye. Opposite his house, a woman was crouched down in the driveway kneeling by a car. He stumbled over to his night stand light and turned it off. Closer to the window, he confirmed his hazy suspicion. It was Deana, seemingly siphoning off gas from the car into...something.

He quickly put his clothes back on and bounded down the stairs. Not bothering to put on a jacket, her neighbor ran across the street in the chill of the late autumn evening. Deana didn't stop as he approached; she seemed mesmerized by her task...or quite possibly was sucumbing to the fumes. "What are you doing!?" he asked her, standing over her. She rolled her eyes up at him but didn't stop the slow process of huffing in gas into a secition of water hose and letting it lose in a battered sauce pan. Her neighbor stood there for a moment more before she stopped and stood up. She crept past him, as if she didn't see her. She ambled back across the street, zombie-like, holding her sauce pan of gasoline

Her neighbor caught up to her again and slowed to match her zombie's pace. "What are the doing? Are you nuts? Getting gas like that is totally dangerous."

"I'm burning down the chamber. I'm burning it down. It needs to some down," she said.

They continued on into her backyard. "You won't get any money for it. What if you burn your house down?" Deana shrugged. "What abour your neighbors?" But she was already pitching the gasoline out, letting splash against the sides of the chamber and roll down to the grass around it.

"It's got to come down." She pulled out the lighter form the basement, the missing lighter, and crouched down. She started flicking it very inexpertly. As anyone is likley to do, her neighbor grew impatience watchign her clumsy thumb incompetently try to spark the lighter into a flame. 

"Here...let's me dow it," he said. Whterher such a things was incredibly illegal or not, he didn't know. He even didn't know right at that moment whether or not he would torch the thing, or hand the lighter back to her and let her do the honors. He flicked it a few times...his hands were getting cold...then a organge then blue flame seemd to peer out from the lighter, flicker in the breeze, then jump into existence. He shielded the delicate thing with his hand and, in a amoment of relative sanity, handed the lighet back to her.

Deana would not have wanted it any other way. She would have grabbed that lighter from his hand, yanked it out to be more precise, if she had to do it. She bent down to light the trail of gas that they had poured from the chamber to where they stood now. Her neighbor held out his arm to block her, "Wait," he said. "Where are you going to go? You can't stay here, not if you do this."

This injection of rational thinking made her pause for a moment. "I'll leave town."

"And go where?"

She didn't know. Where would she go? This had been the only place she had ever known. But she recalled the endless days that she spent feeling miserable, wishing that she could isolate herself from the waves and beams and particles that were causign her own internal rhythms to scramble. She lived now with a constant feeling of anxiety, of pain, and desperation. Surely there was some escape from these feelings. Surely, there was some plaec for her to go to find relief. And that's when she said, "Salubrious."

"What?" her neighber asked. "What's that?"

"A place I read about. In West Virginia. It's a retreat from...all of this." She waved her hands around. "I'll go there, and you'll drive me there."

"No, no. I'm not going to West Virginia. Not with you. I'll take you to the bus stop in the next town. You can make your way on your own."

"Okay, that's a deal." And with that Deana lit fire to the chamber and most of the back of her father's house. Deana's brother received a call a few days later from the sheriff's office informing him about the fire and that his sister had disappeared. Maybe he had wanted to say, "Don't look to hard," but mildly replied, "I'll let you know if I hear anything."


INSIDE THE QUIET ZONE

"Mr. Jason, Mr. Jason, wake up!" Jason sat up in his conference room chair and let the conference walls and the conference room table and the conference room light overtake him. He was, needless to say, in a conference room. Had he not been asleep in the conference room, he probably would come come to this realization sooner. Jason looked up and saw the night janitor, a Polish man named Marek, whom everyone called Mark, but Jason called Marek, standing over him. "You're sleeping in the conference room again, Mr. Jason."

"Oh, really? I guess I didn't realize how late it was."

"I kept coming around to check on you, to see if you were awake, but now I have to leave. You have to wake up now, I think."

"No, you're right. I should go home."

"Yes, you have a litle baby at home, don't you? I remember the pictures."

Jason did have a little baby at home, and a wife too. But he still spent many nights like this prepared to work the night through on his projects, only to find himself supine in the break room, or hunched over a copy machine asleep. In Jason's defense, the wife and the baby were both relatively new phenomenon in his life. For much of the last ten years, he had been in and out of school, and used to working at the strangest of hours. The formula generally had worked for him until he came to the quiet zone on a post-doc. He came with his new wife and their new baby in tow and life had not really settled into a routine ever since.

Since arriving in the area, Jason had felt out of sync and odd. His comments to his colleagues often came out garbled and misunderstood. His first week found him in a hour long shouting match with one of the lab's project directors. His work had been sloppy and late. In fact, each day, Jason seemed to lose grasp on his purpose and rational for being here. 

He also imagined that the pressure being put on him to peform at work extended to home as well. His wife, Paige, had voiced her concerns about his general mood and seeming unhappiness, but was generally content to live out this exile in this strange, quiet country. This didn't stop them from having arguments and arguments led to more arguments. In fact, it started to be the case that arguing and fighting took over much of their interaction. Through all of this arguing and unhappiness, Jason felt time slipping away mercilessly.

The strange thing was that he was there to study and measure time with the precise observations from the radio telescope. He was surprised by how much data came pouring in--reading from remote solar systems on the rotations and movements of particles and stars and planets. He had consumed some of the data before, but had not really seen it all streaming in all at once.

Jason had been working on a report for his fellowship advisor in the conference room when Marek found him. His laptop, which had started off the night with a crisp bright screen and happily humming fan had long since powered down in exhaustian too. Papers were scattered about. On a legal pad in front of him, Jason saw the words, "The relative size of people who are here..." and had no idea what that meant. Jason gathered up his things and rode his bike home to get a few hours of sleep before he had to return to the lab the next day.

***

Since moving here, Jason had been better about working out. At least two or three times a week, he brough along a gym bag with workout clothes and running shoes with him to the lab. He usually spent an hour in the gym on the treadmills and inexpertly using the weight equipment. This morning he was tempted to not go at all. He was particularly tired and feeling defeated. The baby and his wife were still asleep, so he showered and crept downstairs, only to find his bag sitting out for him already. He ate a quick breakfast and drank some coffee before getting on his big, gym bag in hand, and headed for the lab.

Along the way, the kept saying to himself that this day would be the day, the one where he would turn everything around. Maybe it would start by working a little harder on the treadmill, or lifting a little more in the curling machine. Maybe he would find his direction again in his research, and know, once again, why he was spending the better part of the his late twenties combing numbers for...something.

When he got to the gym, it was just opening up, a thin man in jeans and a tucked in t-shirt greeted him and invited him to swipe his security ID. Once inside, Jason headed to the locker room to change. He went through most of his usual routine and ended up lying down on an exercise mat with his damp, sweaty towel covering his face. As he lay there, he thought he heard his advisor nearby talking in a broken up, huffing voice. "I don't know where the report is," he said. "I have asked for it and asked for it."

"He doesn't seem to be working out."

"No, not at all. We must of have misjudged what he was made of exactly."

"Well, it happens. Remember that woman from India a few years back. Oh, and there was Harold too."

"Hopefully he's no Harold."

"No, as long as he stays on course and doesn't go veering off on a completely different path."

"Remains to be seen. Hard to say for sure right now."

"Have a talk with him, straighten him out."

"You know that when it gets this far there is sometimes only one route."

"True. I've seen it."

"So have I."

Jason stopped listening at this point, letting this whir of the exercise bikes drown out their voices. He was convinced that they were talkign about him, and why not? Wasn't he lying on a sweaty exercise mat, aching from a little early morning exertion, trying to justify not continuing on with hsi work? A calmer, more rational voice stepped in at this point and advised him to go and actually talk with his advisor and try to work on the problem. Certainly he would make the first half the happen; the second part might be harder to acheive.

Jason spent the rest fo the morning working on a conference paper based on his research, or whatever parts of it there were to present. He ate a quick lunch of leftovers that he had stowed away in the refridgerator. He saw his advisor walking down the hall through the glass windows surrounding the study carrels where he was working. Jason leapt out of his seat and rushed down the hall.

"Dr. Dorian, Dr. Dorian!" he said. His advisor stopped and turned.

"Jason, how are you?

"Good, I need to talk to you today." 

Dr. Dorian looked down at his watch. "I've got a director's meeting at 3:30. It's 2:00 now. Can you walk?"

"Oh," Jason looked back over his shoulder at his table top desk, his computer and work. "Sure, just let me grab my coat."

"Okay, hurry up." Jason joined back up with the seemingly impatient Dr. Dorian and they started to walk down the long coordor that led to a complex of small offices over to the administrative buildings for the lab. Out in the sun, crossing the green lawn between the building, seeing the moutains rising up around them, Jason felt much clearer, much more sane. He started to wonder why he was confronting his advisor at all. But here he was; he had to say something. "What's on your mind, Jason?"

"I owe you a research report."

"That's true. You do. When were you planning to give that to me?"

"By the end of the week."

"Okay, that's fine. I'm going out of town this weekend for a conference. Have it to my by Thursday." Today was Tuesday."

"Sure, I'll send it to you then. But, Dr. Dorian, that's not all." They both stopped at the same time. "Look, I realize that I'm struggling. I know that I'm behind the other post-docs."

"Yes, you are. I won't deny that."

"I'm not sure what's going on."

"Jason, there's no doubt that you're a bright student. You have done some amazing work up till now. We all go through growing pains becoming researchers. You have stop being a student and become a researcher. You have to understand too that there is pressure on me to get you to perform. We don't want post-docs just fading away. This isn't a humanities  program. We have to think about the budget and the health of this program."

With each passing phrase, Dr. Dorian seemed to up the pressure on Jason, rather than diminish it. Jason started to squirm a bit, and they both started walking again.

"Jason, I have to level with you. I'm being told to cut you loose in a month. The director wants to see your work--a presentation, a report--I don't know what. But if you can't produce he wants to cut his losses. Why don't you do this...finish working up your results for me, get them posted, then take the weekend off. You have a wife, right?"

"Yes, and a son." Jason wasn't sure if he was writing on the docor's face a seemingly frown and furrow of disapproval at this interjection.

"Well, take your wife and son and get away, go up in the mountains. Take a hike. Spend the night in a lodge. Try not to think about work. Clear your head. We all need breaks from this," he said. "I have to finish up some work before that meeting. Will I see that report?"

"Yes, I'll get it to you."

Jason stood in the middle of the lab's large lawn watching Dr. Dorian fade into the doorway of the administrative complex. Off in the distance, Jason could wee the metal work of the radio telescope peaking up over the buildings. He wondered what the sound of their conversation sounded like to the telescope, to this exquisite piece of machinary that could be pointed and aimed in fractionally small increments, could detect radio frequencies travelling across the gulfs of time and space. What did their conversation sound like to that machine? Would such a senstive instrument even register the subtle waves of comfort and cajoling that emanated from the doctor?

***

Somehow, Jason did manage to finish writing his report for Dr. Dorian. He submitted it and took a three hour nap before his wife got home from work with the baby. When she did, she was juggling her brief case, a plastic bag of groceries whose handles seemed stretched beyond the point of holidng. She also had the baby in its car seat slung up in the crook of her arm. "Can you help me?" she asked. She wasn't irritated but her voice was strained. 

Picking up on just that strain of irritation put Jason in a bad mood. He was already feeling little moody from his overly long nap, or rather groggy .This was a frequent occurance for him--taking a long nap to recover his head, only to find himself fighting off waves of fatique from the nap itself. It was times like these that he wished he could reposition everything around him and start over, his a reset switch again. He fought back his own wave of irritation and depression, he tried at least. He quickly wondered how they would ever be able to cope with everything going on around them.

Fortunately he had these thoughts while grabbing the car seat out his wife's hands. He took the baby into the dining room of their apartment and sat him down on the floor. The baby was asleep too, but started crying when Jason set him down on the floor. Jason pulled up a chair and started rocking the car seat and signing. That didn't work, so he unstrapped the baby from the seat and craddled him in his small striped pajamas.

Jason cupped the tiny hatted head in his hands and began pacing the apartmetn with his son. The baby calmed down a bit and really was relaxed once Jason found a pacifier for him. The feelings that had threatened to over rule him before vanished away for a few moments and he sat down with his son in an arm chair and hummed made up tunes to him.

When his wife came in the living room, she said, "We can't take Carl to day care on Friday. Hildy is taking the day off."

"That's short notice," he said.

"Yes, but that's the way it is."

"It's not a problem."

"I'm going to have to take off work, but I have a ton of work to do."

"Oh, that's too bad. I was thinking that we should go away this weekend."

"Jason, it's just not goign to happen. Besides, what about last month. I wanted to go away, but you couldn't."

"I finished that report and turned it in."

"And so now you can go out of town?"

The banter was turning ugly quickly between them.

"Maybe we should talk abotu this later."

"Maybe."

Later didn't occur until about three hours later after dinner had been made and the baby put down for the night. Paige was propped up in bed, reading a magazine. Jason came into the bedroom having just gone in to quiet down the baby who always rebounded back from sleep after 30 minutes or so. "He's finally asleep," he said, rolling onto the bed next to her.

She didn't put down the magazine at first; he didn't say anything and just waited for her. "So, what are we going to do about this weekend?" he asked.

"I am swamped at work this week," she said. "We have auditors coming next week and I have to make sure everhthing is in order."

"That's fine. It's really no problem. I'll stay home with the bub that day."

"What about you're work."

"It'll be fine. I need a break."

"But what about Dr. Dorian?"

"No, that's it. He's the one that told me to take a break. To get away this weekend."

Paige straightened herself upon hearing this. "What does that mean, Jason?"

"It doesn't mean anything. He just thought I should take a little break. You know, get in touch with nature, that sort of thing."

Even though they hadn't been married very long, Paige and Jason had been together for several years. Paige had never known him when he wasn't in graduate school, struggling and scrambling to build his career. She knew enough about academia to feel suspicious about a higher up telling someone to take a break. It ran counter to everything that she had ever heard from Jason about academics.

"Jason, look at me and tell me that nothing is going on."

Jason looked at her, trying to muster as much sincerity as he could, "No, nothing. I swear, nothing."

"Jason, really? Are you sure?"

"Yes, I'm sure. Everything is fine. Maybe on Saturday we should do something. Take the baby to the park, get some lunch."

"That sounds nice."

***

Jason survived the next few days knowing that he would have the weekend to unwind. On Friday, he got Paige out of the door and turned his attention to the baby. What would they do today? he wondered. Feeling uncertain about what would happen on Saturday, JAson decided that he would take the baby for a hike. He got his shoulder bag packed with snacks and diapers and a change of clothes. He started to feel stressed out about how much time it was taking to leave, but managed to get a hold of himself and get the baby out of the door.

He drove with the baby a few miles outside of town to a trailhead that had been created by a local boy scout troop countless years ago. He sat off into the rolling foothills of the mountains with the baby craddled in front of him in a sling.

He walked for about an hour, turning around once he sensed the baby getting restless in the sling. When he got back in the car, he headed down the road back to town. After about a mile, he noticed that the car began pulling heavily to right. He pulled over the car and realized that the tire had gone flat. Of course, they didn't have a spare tire in the back, the spare tire being the very one that just went flat.

Additionally, he had not way of contacting Paige to let her know. One of the strange things about coming to the radio free zone had been leaving things like their cell phones behind. The strict limitations on what devices could be used when and where took some getting used to. Jason was surprised, though, by how quickly they grew accustomed to not having some of the conveniences of modern life. Of course, it was times like these that he wished had been any where other than this 500 square mile swath of land where no cell phones were allowed.

Just up ahead, he saw a turn off that must lead to a house. It probably wasn't far, so Jason go the baby and decided to walk. He walked for about 15 minutes before he was standing on the porch of an old cabin. This cabin wasn't like the old farm hosues and hunting shacks that littered the country side. A BMW was parked in beside the house. The yard surrounding the cabin had been kept up meticously, plants and flowers ran amock, but did so with a kind of artistic flair to them. Nature could never have been that artfully disorganized.

He knocked several times on the door and no one answered. Finally, a man came down a stair case tying a bath robe aroudn him. He was an older man, receeding hair, a gray moustache. Obviously old, obviously well off. He opened the door and studied Jason, taking particular notice of the baby. He seemed to step into the doorway, filling up as much of the space as he could. "Can I help you?"

"Sorry to bother you..."

"It's not a bother, I;d just like to know why you're here."

"Uh, excuse me."

"We're somewhat out of the way here, yet here you are with a baby. It raises suspicions, you know. Where's your car? How did you get here?"

Jason realized that there was someone standing behind him at the bottom of the stairs that led up to porch. A large stocky man wearing dark cowboy boot, dirty jeans, and a heavy denim shirt dusted off his white cowboy hat and put it back on his head. The man didn't say anything, didn't make eye contact with Jason, just leaned heavily on the stair railing.

"So, do you want to tell me why you're here."

Jason tried to to explain himself, "It's just my car. I got a flat down the road.

"What were you doing out here, young man?"

"Just hiking, with my baby."

"And what exactly were you expecting me to do?"

Before Jason could speak, he saw someone else enter the scene. A woman was coming down the same stairs that this off putting man had, also wrapping herself in a robe. Jason wasn't exactly sure what kind of scene he had entered into. Was this some kind of sordid adulterous romance playing itself out? Why the enforcer behindhim. He became very conscious of the baby hanging from aroudn him. He felt very vulernable both because he couldn't just dart off down the road, but also because he would have to protect his son at all cost.

"Who is that Anthony?"

"No one, just having a chat." The man, presumably Anthony had turned back to look at the woman, whom Jason noticed to be an attractive woman, maybe in her mid-thirties, maybe older. 

The woman walked up behind him and threw the door open. "Oh, what a cute baby. Anthony, what's going on."

The man looked at him looking at her and seemed to read somethin there. "This young man got a flat and needs some help."

Just then the baby started fussing. "What's your name?" the woman asked

"Jason, my name is Jason."

"Antohny, why don't you get Terry to take car of the car, I'm just he won't mind." Anthony nodded to the man in the white cowboy hat who nodded back, disappeared, then reappeared seated in a golden and brown pick up truck. The truck kicked up dust down the road before making a hard turn onto the rutted road back to the car.

The man and the woman let Jason come inside and feed his son a bottle. The woman cooed over the baby and asked to hold him. Jason decided it was best to not ask many questions, particularly once the man left him alone with the woman. He kept his eyes on the baby and kept all conversation on him as well.

When the man named Anthony reappeared, he was dressed. "You're car is in the driveway. Terry brought it up for you."

Jason took this as an obvious invitation to leave and did so gladly. He returned home hoping that the rest of the weekend would be a little less eventful than this very strange day.


LOST IN LOUISVILLE

Dr. Conroy had not know how much longer he could tolerate Henry. The man had nearly managed to get him arrested on two occasions, not counting the little chase scene at the Wal-Mart. Henry had been hit during a bar fight, had stolen a pack of cigarette and probably made countless women uncomfortable along the way. Yet Dr. Conroy kept picking his traveling companion off of the floor and getting him back in the car. 

The reasons for this were not entirely clear to him, even now. Maybe he felt like Henry really had become his patient and was in his care. Maybe he was more afraid of what would happen if Henry strayed away from him than not. Despite these conflicted feelings, the doctor decided that he would try one last time to get rid of Henry. He decided that Lousiville would be the place.

They entered the city from the north, crossing over the river on the large metal bridges, backed up with traffic. "I've got some business to attend to here. I'm going to leave you to fend for yourself."

The doctor dropped Henry off in front of a drug store in downtown Louisville. "I'll pick you up in three days, right here," he said. Surprisingly, Henry got out of the car and started to wander off down the sidewalk. The doctor pulled away not entirely convinvced that he was going to return or not. Only time would tell.

After dropping Henry off, the doctor drove to an old residentential section of the city  to a white clapboard house that resemebled something betweena shot gun shack and tiny bungalow. Increasingly the neighbor around this little house was changing and young ocuples bought up cheap houses and refurbished them. Many of the houses in front of the peeling shabby white one where he parked the car were bright pastels or subtle gradiants of brown, ringed with plants, littered with art, and exuding an air of causal, yet studied cultivation.

He turned the car off and proceeded inside the small white house. Upon entering, he was overwhelming first by how dark the house was and how small it seemed to him. The the odor of cat urine overtook him as well. "Hello!?" he yelled out, moving to pick up some newspapers from floor, only to realize that they were covering up other, slighly damp newspapers from underneath. He dropped the papers back down and walked down the narrow hallway. From the back of the house he couuld hear the rattilng of a window unit, and the sound of dripping water. An old woman was coughing too. 

There she was, the old woman, sitting at a metal table by the small wall of a kitchen at the back of the house, a rivlet of water was creeping up to her, running out from the bathroom. The doctor realized that he was walking through a small pond that was forming around the bathroom sink where a steady flow of water was running down from the overflowing sink.

He turned the water off and proceeded to mop up as much of the water as he could with whatever towels he coudl find. The ones that he could find were mostly hardned into strange shapes and so musty smelling that he could hardly stand to handle them. The doctor was not a particular man and had put up with some pretty unsavory conditions in his time, but seeing this scene was getting to him.

Despite shutting off the sink and sopping up a good bit of the water, there was still water going this way and that. He yanked the sheets from the bed in the small bedroom next to the bathroom and wiped up the rest of the water with that. Then he went around the house collecting anything washable that he could find, carried it out to the car and found a laundromat.

He sat wordlessly, blankly in the laundromat for several hours, feeding quarter after quarter into the quarter hungry washing machines and dryers. One the las load finished, he steeled himself for the return to the house where he would find his mother doing god knows what.

***

The doctor refused to sleep in the house that night. He parked his car in the empty, slighly tilted garage behind the house and slept there. He had become so used to sleeping in the car, that a feeling of security and comfort accompanied his preparations to sleep. In the morning, he went inside to shower, only to find that there was no hot water available. He continued on with it anyway, wrapping himself up in a fresh smelling towel that had been cleaned the day before. He got his mother up from bed and changed her clothes. He brushed her hair then moved her into the kitchen.

He had not seen his mother in several years. When he last saw her, her condition was not good, but he decided that he could not wait around there to watch her get better. Things were much worse now. She hardly seemed to recognize her and didn't seem very interested in engaging in conversation either. It amazed him that she was still functioning at all, but somehow she managed to move about and live. 

He cooked her breakfast and stationed her in the living room in front of the television. Certainly watching her programs had been a regular part of her life, and this did not change now. He went back to the kitchen to decide how best to proceed. The doctor made a trip to the grocery store and bought cleaning supplies, not a bleach, large trash bags, rubber gloves. At a hardware store, he picked up a respirator, just to make the job a little more bearable. 

He spent most of the remainder of that day picking up, throwing out junk, and scrubbing, scrubbing away. The day ended with him calling animal control to cage the numerous cats that were running around the house. 

He knew, based on what he was seeing that his mother could not be left like this, but what could he do? 

The next day, a woman showed up on the front porch and was surprised to see Dr. Conroy answering the door. "Who are you?" he asked, not meanign to sound so suspicious.

"I'm your mother's case worker. I've been checking on her for the last few weeks. Are you her son?"

"I am. Nick, Nick Cavill."

"Mrs. Cavill isn't doing well, Nick. I really think that we need a plan for her."

"What kind of plan?"

"Well, i would like to keep her in her home, but I don't think it's realistic, unless she can have more support around the house."

"Can't you get people to come in?"

"That's not the kind of help that I was thinking of."

"Look, it can't be me. It just can't be. I know it should be, but I have...business interests in other states. I was just passing through town."

"WEll, the house looks much better than it did. But, you do realize that your mother is on the road to becoming a ward of the state, don't you?"

"I guess that I do. I just don't know."

For the first time, his mother interjected a comment. "I don't want you marrying that bitch. She said." A soft, wrinkled hand hovering in space and pointed at the women. She looked at her son directly for the first time since he arrived. "You don't marry that bitch, you hear. She's trying to take this house away from me. I won't stand it."

"Mother, no one..." But the case worker motioned him to stop and he did. They walked back to the kitchen where he started asking questions in a whisper, "Do, what am I supposed to do? I have to leave town tomorrow."

"I would recommend that..." Neither of them heard or saw the old woman come up behind the case worker with her cane raised. She swung with whatever reserve of strength she had at the case worker's head. The woman fainted into Dr. Conroy's arms. He grabbed her and sat her down in one of the dining room chairs, feeling at the back of her head for blood.

His mother was already heading back to the living room. The doctor did not know what the do and just started at the slumped over woman, watching her nervousloy for signs of life. He knew that he was going to have to call an ambulance and that meant the police and who knew what else. Meanwhile the only person probably on his mother's side was sitting there semi-consiously in the dining room.


***

The EMTs came quickly and check out the case worker, who had revived just before their arrival. Dr. Conroy had given her some ice and a glass of water. The woman just sat there not saying anything, but in a completley passive and accepting way. The doctor was surprised that she wasn't angry over this incident. She did insist, however, that the police officer who had also shown up on the scene fill out a report. The officer insisted that that the doctor come to the police station to finish completing the report [this probably doesn't make much sense, oh well].

At the station, Dr. Conroy finished his business with the officer quickly. As he was leaving, he saw sitting in the booking room a man who looked remarkably like Henry. The doctor must have looked a little too long, because jsut then Henry look up and over at him and gave him a large, leering, and toothy smile. He started nodding silently again at the office who was processing him. 

Dr. Conroy knew that he could turn around and walk right out the doors of the station and never look back. He could rid himself of this man named Henry and not have to worry about him ruining his future plans, which he would inevitably do. He did not turn back at first. He exited the station through its smooth swooshing sliding door and crossed most of the parking lot before something inside of him stopped him in his tracks. 

This decision, this line of action, did not feel right to him. Again, as with everything having to do with his man, the doctor did not clearly understand his own motivations. But, he knew that leaving Henry behind would not sit well with him in the long run. This change of heart might seem suprising given the kind of work that the doctor was accustomed to. Throughout his interactions with numerous patience and practitioners of his various cures and methods, he always was able to distance himself from them and their ailments. He always felt that everyone involved was particpating in an elaborate lie whose complexity and scale made it almost indistinguishable form complex "real" interactions. 

He did not feel bad for these poeple who had chosen to belive him and his message about this cure or that. Their belief was contingent on that initial choice, hinged on that delicate pivot point. But what about Henry? The chaos inside that man made him seems beyond illustions like these, somehow incapable of participating in the collective delusion that Dr. Conroy, over the years, had come to simply accept as life itself.

The doctor turned back to the station and inquired at the desk about the man who had been sitting in the booking room. "And you are?" the officer on duty asked.

"I'm his doctor. I have been treating him. He is very emotionally unsteady right now. I'm worried about the effects of being in jail for too long. The officer at the desk indicated that he was being held at least over night. "Visiting hours are in an hour if you want to wait." Faced with the option of going back to his mother's house and sitting at the police station, Dr. Controy decided to wait. 

When it was time for visiting hours, he let the police officer know that he would speak to Henry. A guard brought out Henry who seemed likely to collapse in exhaustion. After only a few days, Henry looked much more ragged and worn down than the doctor remembered. "What brought you here doctor?" Henry asked in a slurred voice; he clealry was still a little drunk. "Besides yourself, that is!" He chuckled at his joke.

"Nevermind that, I'm going to try to get you out."

"Not gonna let me rot here in Louisville, you're home town. Wonder what I could find out about you here. Already learned some interesting stuff." Was Henry threanenign him, or just lacking any tact or social grace. Didn't he see that the doctor was sticking his neck out ot help him?

The doctor did a quick mental inventory. What possibly could Henry have learned about him after only a fews days of being in town. Probably nothign too damaging--story about getting a girl pregnant, a disorderly conduct arrest, a few check cashing scams that he had run. It seemed pretty run of the mill to him. As far as he could remember, he didn't have anything to worry about. 

"I'd just keep my ears very, very wide open and just let the stories pour in. Seems to be all that I have to do, no matter where I go."

AGain, what kinds of stories could these be? The doctor leaned in and hissed, "Now might be a great time to be threatening me. I'm going to try to get you out."

"Very good of you. Show me the door."

"Not quite there yet. I need a plan and don't have one."

"Find a bondsman."

"Well, that might be an option, but you need to rein it in a little or the money won't show up."

"Oh, yes, of course. Of course doctor. And maybe I won't bring up the fact that y ou were trying to case me aside, and leave me here in this place. I don't know what kind of person would do that sort of thing, but I found the lesson to be very eye opening."

Now it was the doctor's turn to lash out, "Something that your wallet reading didn't tell you, I guess. Well, in case you hadn't noticed, I do have a reputation to uphold. Certain appearances have to be maintained."

"Yes, oh, yes. By all means. Exhausting work it must be too--keeping up all of those apearances."

The doctor stood up to leave. "I'm not going to carry on like this with you, but I will get you out of jail. I take some responsibility for that. In the meantime, why don't you try not ot cause any trouble."

Unfortunately for the doctor, he imagined troubel taking a variety of forms between now and when he could get Henry out. Between this man and his mother, the doctor felt a little unequipped to deal with everything. He desparately hoped that his mother's case worker would come through ad be able to sort everything out with an assisted living facility.

It did cross the doctor's mind how odd it would be to start a gree hous
